.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Intel Corporation.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice(s),
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice(s),
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "MEMKIND_HBW" 3 "2015-02-12" "Intel Corporation" "MEMKIND_HBW" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
memkind_hbw.h \- high bandwidth memory memkind operations.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <memkind_hbw.h>
.sp
.B Link with -ljemalloc -lnuma -lpthread -lmemkind
.sp
.BI "int memkind_hbw_check_available(struct memkind " "*kind" );
.br
.BI "int memkind_hbw_get_mbind_nodemask(struct memkind " "*kind" ", unsigned long " "*nodemask" ", unsigned long " "maxnode" );
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
High bandwidth memory memkind operations.  The ACPICA specification
provides the PMTT table which defines a bandwidth value for each
NUMA node.  This table is used to idenify the set of NUMA nodes
that share the highest bandwidth value.  When the memkind library
is installed the application
.I /usr/sbin/memkind-pmtt
is executed which creates the file identified by the constant
.BR MEMKIND_BANDWIDTH_PATH .
.PP
.BR memkind_hbw_check_available ()
returns zero if the PMTT table defines heterogeneous NUMA node
bandwidths.   Returns
.B MEMKIND_UNAVAILABLE
if the PMTT table does not exist, or exists and defines uniform NUMA
node bandwidth values.  The PMTT table can be overridden by the
environment variable
.B MEMKIND_HBW_NODES
as described in the
.BR memkind (3)
man page.
.PP
.BR memkind_hbw_get_mbind_nodemask ()
sets the
.I nodemask
bit to one that corresponds to the high bandwidth NUMA node that has
the closest NUMA distance to the CPU of the calling process and sets
all other bits up to
.I maxnode
to zero.
The
.I nodemask
can be used in conjuction with the
.BR mbind (2)
system call.
.TP
.B MEMKIND_BANDWIDTH_PATH
Constant string that contains path to binary file that lists the
bandwidths of all NUMA nodes.  Flat binary file containing
.B NUMA_NUM_NODES
integers of type
.BR int ,
where the value is set to zero for undetermined nodes.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR memkind (3),
.BR memkind_arena (3),
.BR memkind_default (3),
.BR memkind_gbtlb (3),
.BR memkind_hugetlb (3),
.BR memkind_pmem (3),
.BR jemalloc (3),
.BR mbind (2),
.BR mmap (2)
