.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice(s),
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice(s),
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH "MEMKIND-AUTO-DAX-KMEM-NODES" 1 "2019-08-29" "Intel Corporation" "MEMKIND-AUTO-DAX-KMEM-NODES" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
memkind-auto-dax-kmem-nodes - prints comma separated list of automatically detected persistent memory NUMA nodes.
.br
Note: This is EXPERIMENTAL API. The functionality and the header file itself can be changed (including non-backward compatible changes), or removed.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
memkind-auto-dax-kmem-nodes [-h|--help]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BR memkind-auto-dax-kmem-nodes
prints a comma separated list of automatically detected persistent memory NUMA nodes that can be used with the numactl --membind option.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BR " -h, --help"
              Display help text and exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.BR 0
on success
.br
.BR 1
if automatic detection is disabled (memkind wasn't build with suitable libdaxctl-devel version)
.br
.BR 2
if argument is invalid
.br
.BR 3
on other failure
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR daxctl (3),
.BR memkind (3),
.BR numactl (8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Michal Biesek <michal.biesek@intel.com>
