.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\" Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation.
.\"
.TH "MEMKIND_FIXED" 3 "2021-12-08" "Intel Corporation" "MEMKIND_FIXED" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH "NAME"
memkind_fixed \- memkind operations on user-defined memory.
.br
.BR Note:
This is EXPERIMENTAL API. The functionality and the header file itself can be changed (including non-backward compatible changes) or removed.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.BI "int memkind_fixed_create(struct memkind " "*kind" ", struct memkind_ops " "*ops" ", const char " "*name" );
.br
.BI "int memkind_fixed_destroy(struct memkind " "*kind" );
.br
.BI "void *memkind_fixed_mmap(struct memkind " "*kind" ", void " "*addr" ", size_t " "size" );
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The fixed memory memkind operations enable memory kinds built on user-defined
memory.  Such memory may have different attributes, depending on how the memory
mapping was created.
.PP
The fixed kinds are most useful when a specific memory characteristics, e.g.
numa binding, which are not fully supported by other memkind API, need to be
manipulated.
.PP
The most convenient way to create fixed kinds is to use
.BR memkind_create_fixed ()
(see
.BR memkind (3)).
.PP
.BR memkind_fixed_create ()
is an implementation of the memkind "create" operation for kinds that are
created on the memory area supplied by the user.  It allocates space for some
fixed-kind-specific metadata, then calls
.BR memkind_arena_create ()
(see
.BR memkind_arena (3))
.PP
.BR memkind_fixed_destroy ()
is an implementation of the memkind "destroy" operation for kinds that are
created on the memory area supplied by the user.  This releases all of the
resources allocated by
.BR memkind_fixed_create ()
, but please note that it does not de-allocate the underlying memory.
.PP
.BR memkind_fixed_mmap ()
allocates the file system space for a block of
.I size
bytes in the memory-mapped file associated with given kind.
The
.I addr
hint is ignored.  The return value is the address of mapped memory region or
.B MAP_FAILED
in the case of an error.
.TP
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR memkind (3),
.BR memkind_arena (3),
.BR memkind_default (3),
.BR memkind_hbw (3),
.BR memkind_hugetlb (3),
.BR libvmem (3),
.BR jemalloc (3),
.BR mbind (2),
.BR mmap (2)
